(contemplative music)
- [Presenter] In this section,
you will learn to determine the types of costs, for goods
and services, to include in the procurement estimates,
and to conduct a risk assessment
and to draft a mitigation strategy
in case the goods or services are not acquired.
This section should take you
approximately 30 minutes to complete.
(contemplative music)
Before any purchase, start by estimating
how much your goods, services or construction will cost.
This could be done in many ways,
including looking at previous purchases,
consulting purchasing catalogs or supplier websites,
doing an internet search, gathering information
from a supplier, looking at rental options,
or asking for an expert advice from Public Services
and Procurement Canada.
Don't forget to find out if there are any other costs
related to your purchase, such as delivery costs,
life cycle costs, sustainment costs and disposal costs.
All should be included in your estimate.
After all, you wouldn't wanna get a car
if you can't afford the auto insurance, gas and maintenance!
(contemplative music)
Ever wonder what would happen if you were unable
to procure the resources that you needed?
When procurement is not an option,
you will need to find other ways
to accomplish your activities.
Hints on how you can do this are actually found
in the risk and mitigation sections of your work plan.
To conduct a risk assessment
and draft a mitigation strategy,
you identify any events that could stop you
from delivering your activities,
determine the probability as to whether the event
will happen or not, identify any potential losses
or impacts associated with the event
and identify any actions you can take
to lower the potential of that event happening.
The following exercise will help you identify the risks
associated with your activities.
(contemplative music)
Take what you've learned into real life.
Your organization will have its own ways of doing things.
Take a time out from the course
to see how budgets are forecasted in your department.
Connect with your colleagues, director
or financial management advisor,
and chat about existing financial resources
for your procurement needs.
(contemplative music)
Now that you know how to determine the types of costs
to include in the procurement estimates,
how to conduct a risk assessment
and how to draft a mitigation strategy,
let's see what you remember by taking this short quiz.